//Laniqua Webb
//March 5, 2015
//Problem Solving Assignment

                    A Cat, a Parrot and a Bag of Seed.

1.Define
A man is currently stuck on the opposite side of the riverbank with some items and is facing a dilemma in getting both himself and the items safely to the other side of the riverbank. It is not clear if it is possible for the man to walk to the other side instead of riding the boat.

 2.Break Apart
 The man can only carry one other item with him at a time but the cat and parrot cannot be left alone neither can the parrot and seed. The other goal is to ensure that all of the items remain safe if he has to take 1 at a time.

 3.Solutions

1. The easiest and less complex solution is to have the man walk with all of his items to the other side of the riverbank.

 A= current location
 B = Mid Point
 C = Destination

 2.All Items are currently at point A. Man gets in boat and takes parrot to point B goes back to get cat and takes him to point C then goes back to get seed and takes it to point C then goes to point B to get Parrot and takes him to point C.

 4. Evaluation

 Each possible solution meets the overall goals of getting to the other side of the riverbank safely.

 5. Solution Plan
 We will go with solution 2. This is the best way to get the man and his items to the other side. He will first feed both animals and ensure they are alert and then he will execute the above actions to get each item to the other side safely.

            Socks in the Dark

  1. Define
  It is currently dark, and it is necessary to withdraw socks from a drawer. If all of the socks were taken out then it would ensure a matching pair is chosen. The goal is to select the smallest number of socks for each scenario.

  2. Break Apart
  The primary issue is the fact that the lights are off therefore the color of socks can not be seen since it is dark. The goal is to not pull out all of the socks but still make sure you have enough socks to create a pair.

  3.Solution
  -Pull out all but 2 socks for both a and b to ensure a matching pair
  -Create an equation for both a and b to ensure the least amount of sock are chosen.

  4.Evaluate
The first solution does not meet the requirements so it will not work. The second solution does meet the requirements and will work if executed properly.

  5. Solution Plan
  a. since there are only 2 pair of white socks if you pull out at least 4 pairs of socks then you can ensure that at least 2 of the pairs fo sock match.
  b. Since there are a total of 20 pairs of socks and there are 3 different colors to choose from and the goal is to have a matching pair the lowest possible amount of socks selected is 18.
  



